Smart Agriculture

Agriculture is an extremely risky industry and our farmers are at the forefront of the industry.Farmers face several problems which include crops get 
affected by diseases, the soil in not being nutritious enough for the plant to grow, etc. All these factors reduce the overall yield.More than 15% of the crops in India get wasted due to diseases and hence it has become oneof the major concerns to be resolved. Crop diseases remain a major threat to crops, but their rapid identification remains difficult in many parts of the world due to lack of necessary infrastructure. The combination of increasing global smartphone penetration in rural areas and recent advances in computer vision made possible by deep learning has paved the way for web-assisted diseases diagnosis. In addition, selecting proper fertilizers and crops according to soil is of great importance as it helps increase the crop yield, and improve the overall financial condition of the farmer. The three macro-nutrients used by plants are Nitrogen (N), Phosphorous (P) and Potassium (K). N is responsible for growth of leaved in a plant, P for root, flower and fruit, and K helps the overall arterial functioning of the plant.Knowing NPK values of the fertilizer can help the farmer to select a fertilizer that is appropriate for the type of plant they are growing. In this project, we propose a system which helps farmer detect plant diseases, recommend the ideal crop for their soil and recommend fertilizers for them to get the best yield possible. We use the CNN based models for the purpose of disease detection, Clustering and regression algorithms for the purpose of crop recommendation and a rule-based system for fertilizer recommendation.

Existing System

In reference to the literature survey conducted, we reviewed a set of papers and few observations were drawn, out of which the main observation we find a system implementation where we find either crop recommendation, crop price prediction, fertilizer recommendation or plant disease detection. We can find the proposed papers that implement either the combination of either of the functionality or a single functionality but, we don’t find a system were all the three functionalities like crop recommendation, plant disease detection and fertilizer recommendationis implemented. Another observation we found is fertilizer recommendation software that exist in market predict fertilizers which promotes the brand or company manufacturing the fertilizer rather than the fertilizer which is necessary for the soil conditions and appropriate Nitrogen (N), Phosphorous (P) and Potassium (K) levels. The recommendation of organic fertilizer is very minimal. It was also observed that less number of attributes are considered to recommend the crop and system is limited to one class of disease detection which is restricted to limited species of plants.

Proposed System

The proposed systems is built by considering the drawbacks observed in the existing system. We have aimed to develop a single platform where the farmers can access crop recommendation, plant disease detection and fertilizer recommendation system which is more helpful to the farmers. We used the customized datasets in our system. In fertilizer recommendation system we predict the organic fertilizers which is optimal for the existing soil conditions and other external parameters considered. The system aims to help farmers to cultivate optimal crop for better yield. To be precise and accurate in predicting crops, the project analyzes the nutrients present in the soil and the crop productivity based on location. The system will also be used for disease detection on the existing crop of the farmer, on basis of the picture of the crop. There will also be a fertilizer and pesticide recommendation system created, so that the farmer will be able to treat the relevant disease present in the crop. This can be achieved using unsupervised and supervised learning algorithms. A machine learning model is developed considering the various, different sets of data to obtain the output. The system takes input from various sources and uses K-means clustering algorithm and Logistics regression to predict the best suitable crop for any given area. The developed user interface is flexible and highly interactive which will encourage the farmers to use it frequently.

Command to run

python app.py(Command prompt)
